Good morning everybody. Thank you to all the officials who are joining us today, and I acknowledge many of you by name. There's a long list. A chairman of the Federal Trade Commission, Andrew Ferguson, Senator Bill Cassidy, Senator Marsha Blackburn, Senator Roger Marshall, Senator James Lankford, Congressman Doug LaMalfa, Congressman John Joyce, Congresswoman Diana Harshbarger, Congressman Bob Onder, Congressman Robert Aderholt, Congressman Dan Crenshaw, Congressman Tim Walberg, Indiana Attorney General Todd Rokita, Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton, Deputy Secretary Jim O'Neill, Administrator Mehmet Oz, Director Jay Bhattacharya, Commissioner Marty Makary, and Admiral Brian Christine, and a special thanks to Chloe Cole for being with us today to bravely share her odyssey.
Doctors assume a solemn obligation to protect children, yet doctors across the country now provide needless and irreversible sex rejecting procedures that violate their sacred hippocratic oath by endangering the very lives that they are sworn to safeguard. The American Medical Association, the American Academy of Pediatrics battle to lie that chemical and surgical sex-rejecting procedures could be good for children who suffer from gender dysphoria.
They betrayed the estimated 300,000 American youth ages 13 to 17, conditioned to believe that sex can be changed. They betrayed their Hippocratic oath to do no harm. So-called gender-affirming care has inflicted lasting physical and psychological damage on vulnerable young people. This is not medicine. It is malpractice. We're done with junk science driven by ideological pursuits, not the wellbeing of children.
A peer reviewed report published by the HHS Office of the Assistant Secretary for Health last month confirms that sex- rejecting procedures impose medical dangers and lasting harm on children who receive these interventions. So today we are taking six decisive actions guided by gold standard science and the week one executive order from President Trump to protect children from chemical and surgical mutilation. This morning I signed a declaration, sex rejecting procedures are neither safe nor effective treatment for children with gender dysphoria.
These procedures fail to meet professionally recognized standards of care. Medical professionals or entities providing sex rejecting procedures to children are out of compliance with these standards of healthcare. This declaration is a clear directive to providers to follow the science, and the overwhelming body of evidence that these procedures hurt, not help children. Additionally, CMS is proposing two new rules. The first rule will bar hospitals that participate in Medicare and Medicaid, which is almost every hospital, from performing these dangerous and harmful procedures.
The second rule prohibits the federal Medicaid dollars from funding the sex-rejecting procedures on minors. The FDA is issuing warning letters to 12 manufacturers of breast binders, which are medical devices used for purposes such as assistance and recovery from cancer related mastectomies. The FDA is telling these companies that the illegal marketing of breast binders to children for the purpose of treating gender dysphoria commits significant regulatory violations and requires swift congressional or corrective action.
If the manufacturers don't comply, they could face enforcement actions, including product seizures. Furthermore, HHS is also moving to reverse the Biden administration's attempt to include gender dysphoria within the definition of disability. My Uncle Ted Kennedy was the primary author of the Americans With Disabilities Act and of the 1978 amendments that strengthened the Rehabilitation Act.
The Biden era amendments that designated gender dysphoria as a disability served the commercial interest of a predatory multi-billion dollar industry that betrayed the original intention of those laws, engendered widespread public resentments against those laws among the American people, and discredit the statutes in the public mind.
These are statutes that were designed to protect the most vulnerable Americans, and the misuse of these statutes for these purposes, injures the statutes themselves and injures other people who are entitled to that protection and who Americans want to see protected. Our proposed rule will reassure recipients of HHS funding that policies preventing or limiting sex-rejecting procedures do not violate disability non-discrimination requirements.
Finally, our Assistant Secretary of Health Admiral Brian Christine today signed a public health message to inform healthcare providers, families, and policymakers that current evidence does not support claims that puberty blockers, cross sex hormones, and surgeries are safe and effective treatments for pediatric gender dysphoria. These announcements are grounded in evidence and shaped by compassion. President Trump has made child protection a national priority. The Make Our Children Healthy Again strategy demonstrates that commitment. Sex-rejecting procedures rob children of their futures. The MAHA Commission's strategy report calls for an end to overmedicalization of our children. Unnecessary medical interventions drive big money interests that push sex-rejecting treatments. Today's revenue for sex-rejecting drugs and surgeries in 2023 were estimated in one study to exceed $4.4 billion and on track to exceed 7.8 billion by 2030. One doctor was recorded callously describing sex-rejecting procedures as a big money maker.
Hospitals rake in millions of dollars by convincing boys and girls that a lifetime of off-label prescriptions for estrogen and testosterone blockers, chest reconstruction surgeries, and more are the only way to achieve true happiness and belonging in life. It's wrong. The Trump administration will not stand by while ideology, misinformation, and propaganda push vulnerable young people into decisions they cannot fully understand and that they can never reverse.
On my watch, HHS will stand for radical transparency and informed consent. We follow the evidence. We employ gold standard science. We honor the moral obligation to do no harm. There is divine worth in every person. It shines most brightly in our children. That worth commands us to protect them. And as long as I serve as HHS secretary, this agency will do so. Thank you all very, very much.